From the Hill Country in Texas, broadcasting worldwide, this is OneRadioNetwork.com
Well, a very, very pleasant good morning to you. It's about 11.30 Central Time, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Hope you enjoyed a little visit we had with you this morning.
And now one of our favorite guys, very intelligent and wonderful man, his name is Dr. Ray Peat.
He's here on the third Monday of each month.
And as you know, our telephones are out, but we were able to figure out a way how to get him plugged in with a little headset.
So he may sound different, but who cares?
We're going to be able to hear him and he can hear me and that pretty much is really what counts.
If you go to his website, RayPeat.com, he has a great section of articles you can get on his newsletter.
His approach as he writes here gives a priority to environmental influences on development,
regenerative processes, and the evolutionary perspective.
He has done a great deal of work with hormones over the years.
PhD in biology from the University of Oregon, specialized in physiology, and he taught in a lot of different schools.
He started his work with progesterone and related hormones in 1968.
He knows a great deal about the thyroid. He gets so many thyroid questions and hormones.
So he's a really fun guy to talk to.
Dr. Peat, thank you for being on the show. Good morning.
Good morning.
How is your life? What are you doing up there in the Northwest? Are you behaving yourself?
Yeah, staying indoors because of the bad weather, reading a lot.
Yeah? What are you reading?
I've just got RFK Jr.'s book on Fauci.
Oh.
It's a very, very big book full of, I guess, about a couple thousand references.
Most of the stuff that I have ran across over the last 40 years, it's a tremendously detailed review of the government's position on public health, and especially Fauci's role in it.
I've read that he really has an incredible amount of references, right? I mean, he really went to a lot of work with this thing, didn't he?
Yeah, I think he had about 20 researchers organizing the references.
So people are denouncing it because they don't like what he concludes, but no one has apparently found any fly in it.
In 400 pages of detailed description of events in the government and science, you would think that the critics could find some little fact to say what's wrong, but they don't.
I wonder, I don't know if he's getting any kind of exposure on the whole mainstream press. Do you know? I don't know if he is.
Oh, yeah, there have been several, like Associated Press and all of the leading publications have employed banks of reporters to try to find something wrong with it.
And the mainstream media are full of denunciations, but without any factual basis.
Really, so they're just trying to find something wrong with it. What are some of the ideas that you feel are probably most kind of poking people in the eye that they don't like?
Oh, the actual history of the government being involved with the profit-making motive behind the so-called vaccines.
David Martin going through the history of patents regarding vaccines shows that going back more than 15 years, you can find that they were planning to do this sort of thing.
More than 15 years ago, the spike protein and the antibodies that are formed in response to the spike protein, both of these were shown to destroy lung tissue.
Way back 15 years ago, so the craziest thing in the world would be to ignore that, that even the antibodies to the spike protein kill lung tissue.
So the whole concept of an RNA-based vaccine against the spike protein, there's everything wrong with it and nothing right with it, except that you can create a vaccine so-called in a few weeks.
We're ordinary to actually biologically show that you've got an immune reaction.
It takes years, on average about 10 years to make a vaccine that works at least against the virus you're starting with, but this one was never shown to work against any virus.
No virus. It just really was meant to, can you prove that it was just meant to do something other than what's good for the body?
Yeah, if you look at the actual research around 2005, you see that they had explained why the spike protein is harmful and why the antibodies to it are harmful.
When we form an antibody to something outside the body, that gives us a mirror image protein that locks like a lock and key into the antigen.
But having formed these antibodies, our body recognizes the novelty of this newly formed antibody and forms antibodies against that antibody.
The second generation antibody is an exact copy as close as biologically possible to the original toxic antigen.
So every time we react to any harmful antigen, next two steps away from that, we are creating a copy of the harmful antigen.
And these waves of antibodies against antibodies are expensive. They occupy our immune apparatus.
And so repeated exposure to different things, good, even so-called good vaccines, if you give 50 different antigens to a person during development,
you are occupying a huge amount of their immune system, but you're only doing it for the superficial level of antibodies.
Every time you specialize in a new kind of antibody, you're spending your potential, but only you're investing in the possibility that you will confront that particular threat again.
So you're investing in the past in a way. And that has to do with the accumulated damage of aging.
And in Africa, because of poor diet and exposure to lots of parasites and infections, a warm, humid climate, lots of fungal infections,
these things are occupying their immune system over and over again.
And that is a burden on the immune system, explaining why the incidence of acquired immune deficiency is so high when the environment is rich in diseases.
So that is why this whole AIDS thing got so prevalent in the early 80s in Africa, because of the environment.
But there wasn't really ever, was there, Dr. Peata, an AIDS virus that was isolated and shown and really existed as advertised?
In a sense, but in Africa, they didn't find that and so they redefined the existence of AIDS as having the infections that typify people with AIDS.
So tuberculosis is very common in AIDS-infected people, and you see lots of TB in Africa.
Every time you identify a new tuberculosis patient, by definition, that has become an AIDS victim.
Wow.
It's just a matter of definition.
So they actually changed the definition or categorization of people dying from AIDS, but not really because they couldn't find this virus? It never really...
Yeah, Peter Duesberg has been writing about this. He was the world's leading virologist in the 1960s.
But as soon as he questioned this idea that there is an AIDS-causing virus, as soon as he questioned that, he was exiled scientifically, not invited to science meetings, not given any grants, ruined, just ended his career totally.
Wow.
And one of the stories that I hadn't heard before, I think it was in Kennedy's book, is that a well-known medical researcher contacted him by phone and said he wanted to talk to him, flew across the country to have dinner with him.
And after having supper with him, pulled out a document, a research article supposedly, under Duesberg's name.
Duesberg had nothing to do with writing it, but said, "If you take responsibility and say this is your work, you're back in the science establishment," simply by saying, "I hereby acknowledge the existence of an AIDS virus."
Oh, wow.
And he turned it down and just stayed in exile.
Does Kennedy go into it and do you know how many, so many people did die during this whole thing of who knows what?
Were the drugs the problem, similar to what the injections are today, Dr. Peate?
The drugs that they gave these kids?
From the diagnosis as AIDS?
Yes, sir.
Peter Duesberg makes a good case that it was at first recreational drugs that were very popular in the homosexual community.
And then after Fauci became involved, the non-researched or fraudulently researched chemicals to supposedly treat the infection turned out to be deadly.
And Duesberg goes through that history that when the death rate from the recreational drugs was tapering off, the pharmaceutical antiretroviral agents coming on the market took over killing the patients.
Wow. So the AZT, what they gave all the patients when they were diagnosed with having this AIDS virus, right?
Do we know what the tests were like? Was it similar to this PCR test back then? Do we know?
To diagnose people with this alleged virus?
Yes, the PCR didn't come into use until just about a year after the HIV was supposed to be identified.
Yes, but this was the work too that Kerry Mullis, who did invent the PCR, he was looking in this, right? And I've seen videos where he says, "I couldn't find any virus."
That's right. The existence of the virus was thoroughly established according to Fauci and the government before the PCR test existed.
And when it did exist, Kerry Mullis said there's no basis for claiming that.
Wow. We're talking with Dr. Ray Peat. RayPeat.com if you have a question. Dr. Peat.com. Sorry. Let me get the right… sometimes I mess it up. RayPeat.com is what it is. RayPeat.com. If you care to join us, trip… I'm sorry, just Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
So, before we get off this subject, so what do you… so in general, are there similar issues going on with all of these 50-some vaccines they give the kids and the money and the pharmaceutical companies and the government? Are there some real problems with these as well from birth?
Oh, they vary. Each one has its own toxicity and there's a tremendous variation in those.
But when you add up all of the reported deaths from the pre-existing vaccines, the deaths reported from the new so-called vaccines, something like a hundred times more than from all of the existing vaccines added together for the last 10 years.
There were several of the standard so-called vaccines that were very toxic, like for the papillomavirus, fairly toxic, the antitetanus shot.
Others were almost harmless, but still, they were all a burden to the immune system.
And adding up even these things which were only about 1% as harmful as the present RNA virus vaccines, when you add up these relatively harmless things, then you see a tremendous increase in allergies.
Not a massive wave of deaths in middle-aged and younger people, but allergies developing in childhood.
So, it's about 50 times as many allergic kids and young people as before the 1970s, 80s when vaccines were really pushed.
Yeah, we talked with a gentleman, Dr. Peat, who did a whole huge study about this and the health of kids who were not vaccinated and the health of kids who were vaccinated, like you're saying.
It was an incredible study and boy, they just threw him out of the medical association and closed his practice and boy, they didn't want to hear it.
They didn't want to hear any of it. Amazing.
The hepatitis B vaccine was shown to cause lingering brain damage in animal studies.
Wow.
And they gave it to little kids as if everyone was going to be exposed to sexually transmitted hepatitis or to contaminated intravenous drugs.
So, even the theoretically harmless measles, mumps, rubella, you know, they just give the kids.
Cowan and others argue that they really do mess up the innate immune system.
And what you're saying is, if that's been proven, then the kids will get whatever, ear infections and all kinds of stuff.
Yeah. For example, there is evidence that the kids who had normal measles are relatively resistant to developing cancer later in life.
Who just go ahead and had the measles.
Yeah.
After they have less cancer. Wow.
My goodness.
What a thing.
How did we get into this whole vaccine paradigm anyway?
I mean, when I was a kid, what, 60 years ago or 70, for goodness sake, they weren't giving us a whole load, were they?
I don't remember getting a bunch of vaccines.
No, in the late 1930s and through the 1940s, my parents just got their information from newspapers and radios and magazines and so on.
And still, there was enough evidence already to indicate that vaccines were very questionable as a preventive or as a harmless measure.
Starting fairly early, at the beginning of the 20th century, there was evidence that injecting anything intramuscularly, anything irritating especially,
predisposed kids to getting paralysis of the area that receives the injection.
So, if it went in their right hip, that leg was more likely to develop polio paralysis or the left shoulder, that left arm was much more likely to become paralyzed.
That has been reported now for over a hundred years.
My goodness.
And there were very, very well publicized studies in the 1950s that pretty well turned everyone who was at all informed against the vaccines.
And that effect of the area affected by polio is still seen in Africa today.
The frequency of paralysis of a particular part of the body corresponds closely to the site of vaccination.
My goodness.
Do they still give polio vaccines today?
Yeah.
Currently, I think most of it is called the vaccine-derived polio.
Paralysis very specifically relating to the virus given in the vaccines.
Yes, sir.
Wow.
Okay, we're going to take a little break here.
Dr. Peat, stay right there.
Thanks for, he's got a headset on.
Our phones are out, as you know, and we worked that over the weekend.
And thanks for doing that, sir.
This is Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Many people have said, and we concur, that the number one investment we should make is in our health.
Here's George Wiseman.
Last caller, I'm sorry I didn't remember his name, said an investment.
And this is really the investment kind of thing that you need to do.
Not my machine specifically.
I think I sell the world's best machine, and I do my best to maintain it and support the customers and everything.
But regardless of who you get it from, you really should invest in your health.
How are you going to enjoy life if you haven't got health?
How are you going to fulfill that bucket list?
So number one on the bucket list should be your health, and then you get some extra years.
I say this thing not only adds years to your life because the science is showing a 30% to 50% life extension.
So I'm expecting to go to the 120, 150 years old, and I'd help a lot of people between now and then.
But it also adds life to your years.
There's no sense living your last decade of life if you're in a hospital bed attached to machines.
You know what I mean?
Throwing a frisbee and having fun.
It's so true, isn't it?
Boy, if we don't feel good and have the energy to do what we need to do, I mean, what's the point?
And here's an investment with a lifetime warranty and also a one-year, no questions asked, money back guarantee if you don't want it.
Check out this Aquacure machine, bubbling hydrogen gas, drinking it, breathing it.
This is real cutting-edge technology.
Check it out in our store.
Use promo code OneRadio for a 10% discount.
The Aquacure Browns Gas Machine on Radionetwork.com.
One of the very first things I do in the morning is come sit at my meditation chair,
and that's when I take my dual-extracted mushrooms from Sir Thrivall, the chaga and the reishi.
Both of these mushrooms are immunomodulators.
If you had too strong of an immune system, like autoimmunity, it'll help to downregulate and calm the immune system.
If you have too weak of an immune system, like an immunodeficiency, they help to upregulate or strengthen your immune system.
So whatever you're dealing with, they help to bring your immune system to balance.
In addition to being immunomodulators and adaptogens, chaga is probably best known for its extremely high aurac value or antioxidant content.
It scavenges the body of free radicals.
And reishi has a long history being used in conjunction with meditation and for reaching higher states of consciousness.
And that's why I like to take these right before my meditation.
There's a lot of medicinal mushroom supplements on the market to choose from,
but most are made with cheaply produced mushrooms grown on grain and either ground up and put in capsules or extracted in non-organic alcohol.
Sir Thrivall does it differently.
We use wild harvested chaga and organic certified wood-grown reishi fruit bodies, not the mycelial extract.
And then we use an organic alcohol and a hot water extraction method,
and then recombine so you get the full benefits of these extremely high quality mushrooms.
It's a great company and we love Daniel and his work.
And it's just been such an honor over the years to work with him and sell his products.
One of our faves is the pine pollen here.
And it'll keep your testosterone levels up, as my test that you have seen.
We'll substantiate and then, oh, this is a good one here.
We got some CBD oil from Daniel Vitalis.
And what else do I got here?
Well, that's about it right here in front of me.
Oh, the Digestive Bitters.
This is a nice thing for digestion.
Digestive Bitters.
Spray that puppy on there.
So, it's a good company.
Colostrum, great company.
Let us know if we can provide you any information with it.
And I think you'll really enjoy this Thrival product.
So, try the Colostrum.
I put it in my smoothies and I think you'll have a great experience.
I just wanted to mention, if I could go back about 60 seconds and talk about George Wiseman and the hydrogen machine.
After two and a half years, my hydrogen machine just stopped, you know.
And these things happen, you know, they're machines.
And it was just amazing.
I just emailed George.
He said, "Don't worry."
He said, "I'll send you out a new machine and all you got to do is just take the machine that I send you, put your old machine back in there, postage paid.
You can call UPS and have them pick it up or bring it to them and you're done."
And that's the way he works.
So, there is a lifetime warranty on the hydrogen machine and a one-year, no questions asked, money-back guarantee.
I don't know anybody.
And George is very, very careful about doing everything that he's agreed to do with these warranties.
And he's a good guy.
I was missing it, man, I tell you what.
So, check it out.
It's the hydrogen machine on OneRadioNetwork.com.
[Music]
Broadcasting from the beautiful Hill Country in Texas, this is OneRadioNetwork.com.
If I can do that.
Okay.
Well, Dr. Peat, I want to ask you about this.
We had a gentleman on our show, a doctor, an MD, written about 10 books.
And he was talking about how he believed that the research shows, if you look at anthropologists and such, that grains are really, really not good for us.
And he kind of presented the argument that grains and sugar are really the problems behind heart disease and such.
So, let me ask you about that.
Are grains okay, in your opinion?
Did you say greens or grains?
Grains, grains.
Sorry.
I know you have a hard time with this new system.
Grains, yeah, like grains, like everything.
Grains, grains.
Yes, if they're properly prepared, they're fine.
Thousands of years ago, people, I guess, cooking around an open fire, found that if they got ashes, wood ashes, into their cooking wheat or corn or whatever their cereal was,
that it tasted better and that it was better for their health, easier to digest, more nutritious.
And that it's now called, generally, it's called "nextimalization."
Yes, sir.
And you've told us about this, right?
Nextimalization of the corn in Mexico, and we can do this.
Yeah, it tastes very good and it's very digestible.
And highly nutritious.
The toxins of the grain are mostly removed or destroyed by the alkali.
At the same time, the tryptophan, which in itself leads to a promotion of serotonin and inflammation.
The tryptophan, which is a potential toxin, is converted to niacin, niacinamide, which is one of the signs of eating corn unprocessed, is the deficiency disease of niacin.
And people who use the nextimalized corn don't get that deficiency disease because it gives you a very abundant source of niacinamide.
And the removal of the polyunsaturated fats is part of it. They saponify a very large proportion of them, become soap-like in the presence of lime or the calcium hydroxide, lime.
And in the saponified form, they wash out and are thrown away or added to chicken food or whatever for extra calories.
But simply reducing the PUFA content of the grain is a very important thing.
So the nextimalization of corn has been used in traditional, in South America and Mexico for a long time. People just kind of knew it. They figured it out, passed it along to generations.
And in Asia, other grains, including wheat, were processed in the same way.
And people have experimented trying out maybe a dozen different types of grain, saying that they all are improved in flavor and digestibility by the process.
So could this doctor be accurate if you're just pulling in a white rice or a wheat or a bread or something off the shelf, that these things are not good for you?
Yeah, the storage protein, not to mention the PUFA, the unsaponified PUFA is an inhibitor of protein digestion.
And so any protein that is in the ordinary grain is very poorly digested because the PUFA is one of the plant's protective toxins to discourage the consumption of their seeds.
Because wheat and, they're really seeds, aren't they? They're really seeds of the grass, right?
Yeah, and when a person digests the storage protein, gluten for example, gluten is somewhat worse than the other storage proteins.
But the sense of storing, it's nitrogen which is being stored in a concentrated form.
And if you sprout the grain, let it turn into a bit of vegetable rather than a starchy cereal, that converts a potentially toxic nitrogen-rich compound into an actual protein that has nutritional value.
So if it's unsprouted and unprocessed by alkali, those storage proteins, especially combined with polyunsaturated fats, make it practically useless nutritionally.
The so-called protein value just isn't there in practice. It's there analytically, but since our animal digestion is blocked by these agents themselves, they are very poor nutritionally.
Fascinating. So you're talking about, in a sense, if you were going to do rice, I don't know, oats or any steel cut,
well you can't sprout oats, I guess, but can you sprout just white organic rice and then that would turn it into a usable, not harmful food?
If it has been processed, making it white, you've probably removed the germ and you'll get some, if it hasn't been heated, just soaking it, you'll activate some enzymes that reduce the toxins.
The oats, if it hasn't been heated, will sprout, but you have to check that the grain is vital because they're often sterilized chemically or heated and that prevents the enzyme activation that makes them safer.
So in general, we have to really be creative, otherwise most of the grains that we're consuming are either worthless or could be causing inflammation of the gut and things?
Yeah, about 50 years ago there were some good studies of comparing the protein in rice, which just from the analysis, it would look like it was a fair source,
but when you compare it to the protein quality of cooked greens, spinach or kale for example, the quality of the protein in the leaf is much higher, similar to milk protein, than the grain,
such that while there might be 6 or 7% chemically, analytically, in some of these feeding experiments, amounted to hardly more than zero protein.
When you compare it to the leaf protein, that ranked similar to milk or meat in quality.
What if you wanted to use a really ancient wheat like einkorn, which is supposed to be pretty good stuff, would you have to sprout it before making bread to make it worthwhile?
Yeah, much better when it has been soaked to make sourdough or even starting the sprouting process.
But the smaller, the ancient grains generally seemed kind of meager, not plump with starch and that meant that the protein and mineral value is a lot higher.
And that's good.
I see. So, am I hearing you say the more modern grains after hybridization or whatever has been a lot of the gluten problems and not maybe the ancient ones as much, the ancient grains?
Yeah, they are bigger and have more starch and gluten, but those are not beneficial in general.
So, this guest idea that the starch, I guess he's talking about the starch out of the grains, could be a contributor towards heart disease or heart problems?
Oh, the starch? There have been a series going back about a hundred years of studies showing that if you put in especially raw starch, you can purify the starch, corn starch, potato starch,
each has a characteristic granule size ranging from five microns in diameter to a hundred microns in diameter.
And if you give a good feeding, maybe a stomach tube to put a lot of starch in at once and then sample the animals, bloodstream, its liver fluids, its cerebrospinal fluids, the urine, all of the body fluids,
every 15 minutes you find it first going into the bloodstream and from there to the brain and from the blood into the urine finally.
So, even though they are large particles approaching and even much bigger than a red blood cell, these particles unchanged as far as can be seen will go from the intestine right into the circulating body fluids.
And that's not good?
So, when they reach a capillary or a small arterial, they're too big to go ahead and so when they slice up the mice, for example, after they've been fed that way,
they find that their bodies and brains are full of little areas of dead tissue, every place a grain particle clogged an arterial, the surrounding tissue died for lack of oxygen and nutrients.
And the same procedure has been tested in medical students, giving them a glass, a slurry of corn starch or potato starch and then every 15 minutes they're drawing blood or checking their urine.
And you can centrifuge the blood or urine and find the characteristic size and form of the starch granules that they were fed.
And you can decrease the effect if you take the fat in a well-cooked form and with butter or cream to slow the absorption.
And if your peristalsis is very active, for example, if you take it with coffee, more of them go through into your bloodstream.
So, something is always happening to some extent, but the more the starch is cooked and eaten with a balanced diet including milk or cream.
So, that would be why, would you say then a well-cooked potato with butter is pretty good? Better than, it's okay?
Yeah.
Really well-cooked, right? Really well-cooked.
Meaning that the starch reaches about Fahrenheit 211 degrees completely cooked, takes about an hour of baking a potato.
Yeah. So, then that turns the starch into something else?
Into a chemically softened starch. It's much easier to test.
So, if we're just going out and getting, say, an organic rice, whether it be basmati or organic brown rice from California and doing nothing, could that cause these particles from the starch in the rice to be not good for our heart? Possible?
Right. And the polyunsaturated fats.
In the rice.
In the, yeah, in the unprocessed rice. The reason the Chinese developed the polishing process to make white rice is that much of the oil in the bran and germ are removed.
Are gone.
Yeah. So, there's nothing much left to get rancid. So, polished white rice is less allergenic and less cumulative toxicity.
Oh, so that's why they've been able to just eat white rice in China for whatever, for so long, because they get rid of the poopers and other things that can get oxidized?
Yeah, it's more like eating sugar.
More like eating sugar. Wow. So, can you actually take some of this white rice that's so common, say, in China, or you can get it here, that's been, everything's been taken off, Dr. Peat. If you put that in there, would that sprout? Could you sprout that at all, overnight? Would it do anything?
If it hasn't been heated, there will still be some vital enzymes that will break down the starch and protein.
So, is that the process of sprouting? You're breaking down this starch and protein? Why, people sprout different things? That's what's going on?
Yeah, yeah, and it helps to eliminate the pooper.
The pooper, because there's poopers in these grains, right?
And that's what gets rancid so quickly, in the whole grain.
Wow. Wow.
The fat of having whole grains rather than white flour, it's true that they contain much more mineral value, but still, they're a risk for the rancid fats.
For the rancid fats, because they got them in there because they've not been polished out.
Right.
Right. Wow.
This guest recommended that people could do a test. I wanted to ask you about this NMR lipoprotein panel. Are you familiar with this?
NMR?
Yes, sir.
Nuclear magnetic resonance. I don't know if that's a particular blood test.
It's supposed to show the different size particles of the different cholesterol and things like that in there.
But you've not heard of this one, NMR. Oh, it actually measures the number of small LDL particles.
Oh. Yeah.
Yeah, the smaller particles get rancid much more quickly because their surface is greater in relation to the mass.
Wow. So we don't want small LDL particles. We want big ones, big puffy ones?
Yeah, there's a close connection between heart health and egg eating helps to keep the particles big.
And so eggs have a heart protective effect in reducing the number of ultra small fat particles.
Interesting. So in general, we kind of put together the idea of the particles are big, they could clog up things, but it's just the opposite because of the rancidity factor.
Yeah, the bigger particles are much less exposed to oxygen.
Wow. That's pretty cool. Right.
So in the heart disease, then the smaller starchy kind of things, they get into arteries and then that causes a problem.
That's what's causing a mild and can cause myocardial infarctions as well.
That hasn't been as directly and clearly shown, but the starches do cause vascular damage on the small vessels.
They do cause vascular damage.
Yeah, and that triggers immunological changes. The damage makes you have a general systemic allergic reaction to the starches or the grains they come from.
And that would contribute to your heart and artery damage.
And then that could also call in the cholesterol and also what comes after the cholesterol, something, another substance to try to smooth things out.
And that could cause buildup of these things in the arteries because of the infection.
Yeah, the cholesterol is involved in detoxifying the polyunsaturated fatty acids that cause oxidative damage to the lining of the artery.
Wow.
And so the cholesterol temporarily reduces inflammation and should over time gradually reduce the damage.
But if you keep eating PUFA, you keep damaging the arteries and the PUFA combines with the cholesterol and gets overloaded in the tissue.
So you get a plaque of what's really half and half PUFA and half cholesterol.
Wow. And then that's where the calcium might come in too to try to patch things up.
Yeah, once the tissue is damaged, then the calcium tends to take it out of action.
So this is one of the reasons why you've been such an advocate of getting PUFAs out of your life, right?
Right, a big part of it.
And the information goes back close to 100 years.
The 1930s was when they really started thinking about what's going on with age treatment.
And in the 1940s, it was clearly established that PUFA increase accelerates age treatment formation and all of the degenerative processes.
And it turns out that vitamin E slows that process and that was involved in not only selling vitamin E as a protective antioxidant, which isn't its exclusive function.
It functions as an anti-inflammatory agent and as an anti-estrogen.
But once they could show there was an antioxidant, that took over and they didn't talk anymore about the anti-inflammatory, anti-estrogen effect
because estrogen was being sold as a protective thing rather than a promoter of age treatment and tissue damage.
Would that be an argument for most of us or some of us or all of us to do some vitamin E regularly just to be good for you? Reasonable?
I think so. The studies over the years have got different results, but it's because what is called vitamin E has been redefined so much.
For a time, it was defined as a substance that increased fertility by opposing estrogen.
Then it was turned into simply an antioxidant.
And then the manufacturer changed and became very low in the anti-estrogen effect and tended to have more fatty acids, polyunsaturated fats, right in the vitamin E product.
And during those years, vitamin E supplements tended to increase mortality because they were actually selling anti-vitamin E mixed in with the vitamin E.
But when you look at the nature of the substance you're talking about, then yes, vitamin E is very protective.
And then, go ahead, go ahead.
It probably only takes about 30 to 50 milligrams per day to give you full protection.
And what should we look for if our listeners want to find a vitamin E to take every day?
What would be in a product? What would you look for?
A fair amount of viscosity and dark color and a high potency in the smallest volume.
You don't want a big clear capsule that's been diluted.
Like a huge one.
Yeah, they get the most IUs for the smaller the capsule.
Right, so you get less PUFA.
Oh, you get less PUFA. But would you do a mixed, what do they call it, tocopherols, whatever that is, mixed one?
Yes, those are the anti-inflammatory components.
And what are these things made out of, Doc, these vitamin E's? Where do they come from?
Plants make them as regulatory signal materials.
Very interesting. Wow. Well, that's good information.
So, again, on the potatoes, they're okay.
You just need to cook them a lot, really cook them well, and put butter on them, right?
Right. Or cream. Cream's okay.
Cream's okay. And then on the grains, now there is a company that you can get nixtamalized corn.
I have some of that. That's really nice. You can find it online, just Google it.
But then anything else, if you're going to do wheat, even the ancient wheat, you'd probably want to try to sprout it first, maybe, if you can.
Yeah, and it isn't hard to nixtamalize your own stuff. It takes maybe an hour extra.
Really? So you're using lime? Lye?
Yeah, calcium hydroxide.
Calcium hydroxide. And you can nixtamalize pretty much anything?
As far as I know, people have told me that they've used barley and some of the old fossil grains.
Interesting. Do you do this, if you don't mind me asking, for your own grains? Do you use calcium hydroxide if you're going to eat it?
What was the first question?
Do you do this for yourself if you're going to eat some kind of grains? Do you make sure?
I've done it, but I usually just buy the masa prepared.
Yeah, the nixtamalized. Pretty cool. Very interesting. Let's take a few emails here.
Good morning. My question for Dr. Peat is, if the worst comes to be in this crazy world, what would you do to survive without a thyroid?
Oh, they don't have a thyroid. Having been radiated, would there be a way to survive or just die a slow, happy death? Thank you.
They don't have to die without a thyroid, do they, Dr. Peat?
You can theoretically at least make it yourself.
If you, for example, boil milk with oysters in it or seaweed, a source of iodine and trace minerals, the prolonged boiling will create iodinized casein, which in effect works like thyroid hormone.
You can make it right in your kitchen. If it happens that you weren't able to buy a thyroid in a pharmacological form.
Wow, that's fascinating. So you're actually cooking oysters in milk, is what you're saying? Oysters in milk?
Yeah, the reaction between trace minerals, casein, and iodine will produce an active thyroid-like substance.
Fascinating. Now that's, if I understand though, you're not a fan of just taking, no matter what kind, just iodine, right?
No, it's so easy to overdose and lots of people have a strange allergy-like reaction to added iodine or iodide.
No one really understands what is going on. It's some peculiarity of the immune system, but it's fairly common.
What would those reactions present themselves as with too much iodine?
Just getting very sick, headaches, constipation or diarrhea, arthritis pains, and the studies, I've seen about 70 different studies of the addition of iodide to salt.
If you have three or four times more than the daily requirement of iodine taken in through iodized salt, over the years the risk of hypothyroidism and thyroid cancer greatly increase.
Wow.
So, on a population basis, the iodized salt has been harmful to public health.
Wow, and that's all, pretty much, most everybody eats, right? The iodized salt from the blue container?
Yeah, most of the salt in the store, I think, is iodized. If you're in an iodine deficient area, there are areas in the Andes and Mexico and around the Great Lakes that have traditionally been deficient in iodine.
And so, it's okay in those regions, but some studies found that when iodine was being used as a dough conditioner, the average American was getting about 10 times more iodine than desirable if they ate bread.
I see. There's a gentleman that emailed earlier that he had an Achilles heel problem and they had to operate and they loaded him up with antibiotics. He did, let's see, Anaceph IVs for three weeks.
And he wanted me to ask you how he can kind of repopulate everything down there, repopulate his microbiome thing.
Sometimes the bacteria in yogurt help. For example, the Greek yogurt has reduced lactic acid content, but still it's full of the anti-inflammatory bacteria. It's probably a safe addition to the diet.
That's a real thick Greek yogurt.
Yeah.
Aaron writes in, "I thought drinking orange juice caused an insulin spike and it was my understanding that an insulin spike was a bad thing."
A what spike?
Insulin spike, insulin, with drinking orange juice.
Yeah. If you don't take it with other food, but just slowing down the absorption with milk, for example, will moderate that insulin spike.
And if you compare it to rice, sucrose in the orange juice contains an insulin-moderating component.
The fructose slightly inhibits the release of insulin compared to rice or corn starch, which breaks down into pure glucose, lacking the moderating effect of fructose.
So when you look at the glycemic index, the starch is at the top of the list and sucrose is well down the list because the fructose has a moderating effect.
And also the high potassium content of orange juice has a moderating effect.
But you mentioned that you want to always drink it with something else that is okay on its own, orange juice?
If you drink it slowly, don't go down eight ounces at once, but just as if you're...
A little bit.
Yeah, like if there are four oranges in a glass of juice, just spread it out over time as if you're eating the whole orange.
I see. That makes sense.
Dr. Ray Peat is with us, Patrick Tampone, January 17.
Mary says, "Dr. Peat, I have a low thyroid. How can I get armor thyroid from a pharmacy in Mexico, or is there something better to take than armor thyroid?"
I guess she's in Mexico.
It's very hard to get in Mexico, as well as being expensive, but almost all of the drugstores in Mexico will have two forms of a compound that includes T3 and T4.
Cetoplus contains the ratio that armor thyroid... In fact, they designed the product to be equivalent to armor thyroid, a four to one rate ratio of T4 to T3.
And then another product called Novo T-Ral is a five to one ratio, and it's pretty good.
So if you just go out and get an armor or nature thyroid or whatever from pharmacy, it's about a four to one for T4 to T3 in general?
Yeah, the natural gland actually varies from three to one to four to one.
Okay, pretty close. So the Cetoplus, which you can get into a Mexican pharmacy, is four to one, so that would be a reasonable replacement, right?
Yeah, it works almost identically.
Almost identically. Okay.
Here's an interesting email. In Science News in 2003, the exosomes used as vaccine carriers were already proved to shed so much show that they were called a kind of biological FedEx.
Is this shedding why the vaccinated are causing more death than the unvaccinated?
Yeah, the phenomenon of shedding through our breath, sweat, urine, saliva, it's going on all the time.
And Pfizer was fully aware of that and warned their team of vaccinators not to let pregnant women or breastfeeding women get exposed to someone who had been vaccinated.
So that knowledge going back at least 10 or 15 years was fully known by Pfizer, who put it in their instructions in the very beginning when they were testing the vaccines.
So folks that are getting this alleged COVID injection, what are they shedding in their sweat and their breath? What are they shedding?
Just like everyone is shedding some of their natural proteins, RNA, DNA, lipids, a little bit of all of our chemistry.
We shed this all the time, right? Just by breathing.
Yeah, you put a cold piece of metal under your nose and fluid condenses on it, then you analyze that and you find surprisingly big stuff.
The exosomes, the free pieces of RNA, free pieces of DNA, very complex, complex fixtures.
So what do you suppose that's about spiritually or philosophically or evolutionary? Why are we putting out these exosomes all the time?
I think it's a form of biological cooperation. Like bacteria, even bacteria of different categories.
If one group has been exposed to an antibiotic and survives, they will develop a bit of DNA that specifies how to make a detoxifier to the antibiotic.
And they will join up with other bacteria, even of different species, and transmit their DNA instructions right through a little tube.
So the new species gains the knowledge.
Wow.
So if bacteria learned somehow to cooperate with each other and improve their survival, I think all of the higher levels are doing it constantly.
That we're sampling our environment in its genetic composition, and our organism probably most of the time is checking it to see if it has anything useful.
And occasionally some harmful material comes in instead.
So if we get some exosomes in from others out in the store that are not useful, it's not harmful to us generally.
Yeah, there's a lab in Germany that has found all of our food substances' DNA in our bloodstream and tissue, and some of them are actually incorporated in our own genomes.
I didn't quite understand that. So what is the company doing in Germany with the food?
If you eat beef regularly, you can find some beef genetic material circulating in your blood.
Yes.
And then if you culture some of the animal's tissues, occasionally you can find that some of that DNA has made its way into the nucleus and become part of us.
There's evidence that an algae, a toxic algae, can deliver its toxic DNA to our system and become incorporated.
So there is some suggestion of a toxic effect being picked up from certain organisms, but also the possibility that we can use that material constructively.
So in a sense though, is it possible if we are around injected people with these, which we believe are very dangerous, things that we could learn from it or deal with it or not so much?
I think if you look at the mortality around different countries in relation to their continuing vaccination processes,
I think what's happening is that we're calling the shedding phenomenon and the vaccination delivery of the toxins, we're calling that an epidemic.
I think the epidemic is really long past what we're having is echoing of the shedding effect and the new vaccination damaging our resistance.
And no telling what this, whatever test they're using is picking up, right? There's just no telling, is there?
Yeah, they have failed to demonstrate the meaning of the tests they're giving.
Yes, sir. So all these new cases that we see in the news, it's just not relevant, is it Dr. Peat?
Relevant as far as spreading some kind of a mysterious thing.
Yeah, Terry Mullis' observations I think are still relevant.
You spin it enough, it'll pick about up anything I think is, those were his words, right? The CT, the circulation threshold.
Yeah, what you have to do is show a causal relation between your test and symptoms.
Which hasn't really been done, has it?
No.
No. Marilyn writes in, "What would you do for a child with a fever, cough and throwing up? What do you consider to be dangerous high temperatures and how would you treat it?"
Aspirin and all of the anti-inflammatory things. Sugar has really been neglected as an anti-inflammatory thing.
It reduces stress, lowers the stress hormones and reduces the inflammatory cytokines.
Sugar.
To do the damage.
Great.
But, it teaches that for the last 30 years, they told us sugar was going to kill us, right?
Yeah, but sugar corresponds pretty well to the production of carbon dioxide. And if something, if stress causes us to shift from glucose oxidation to fatty acid oxidation,
that lowers the CO2 production and increases lactic acid production, which supports all of the inflammatory problems.
So, getting your CO2 up by maintaining glucose oxidation should be a basic thing.
So, when we saw sugar, it could be anything from organic beet sugar or maple syrup or honey or orange juice or fruit?
Honey and orange juice are very good. The maple syrup, the brown stuff is a fairly inflammatory material in itself.
Oh, the dark stuff. I thought the darker was the better. No?
Well, it does correspond in mineral content, but also there are amino acids which heated in the presence of the sugar, you get a toxic reaction between amino acid and glucose.
Oh.
And that's brown. So, the browning of food tends to increase its allergenicity.
I thought they just got the maple syrup out of the tree and that's it. But no, they cook it.
Oh yeah, you have to boil it for a long time. Same with cane sugar. If you just juice a stick of cane, you have a very nice amber colored solution, which is very, very safe.
But if you cook it long enough to get black molasses, the reaction between amino acids and sugars are allergenic or toxic.
So, if you like maple syrup, you want to try to find a light one that's the least processed.
Right.
Wow. I can remember when I spent some time in Hawaii, they used to have these carts, Dr. Peat, on the road and they would just have the raw cane sugar, right?
And they would juice it right there. And you could have a glass of that. It was pretty fun. Yeah, right there on the side of the road.
Yeah, I think it's a very good juice.
Very good for you. Can Dr. Peat, wow, this is interesting. Can Dr. Peat discuss how hazardous raw and undercooked starch is?
Like the presorption of raw starch, a cause of senile dementia and many other studies. Wow, this person's done some research.
So, what would be like a raw starch, an undercooked starch? What would that be?
Most people don't like to cook their rice until it's gummy, for example.
Yes, sir.
They like some separation of the kernels. Until it's gummy, you're still going to have some of the risky starch particles.
Wow, so that would be an undercooked would just be rice. And then what's, when we get that starch, that undercooked starch, what are the dangers? What goes on there?
If you aren't having it with fat and if you eat a lot of it regularly, then I think you have the risk that they saw in their experimental animals of premature dementia.
Wow, it goes to the brain. It's just something that starts messing with the brain.
Yes, the arterioles that get plugged by a starch granule, everything downstream from that arteriole gets deprived of nutrition and is likely to die.
That's not good. So, in general, I guess even organic brown rice pasta or pasta could be a challenge to eat, right?
Yes, I think pasta and rice and such things should be boiled for at least 40 minutes.
Whoa, could you imagine cooking pasta for 40 minutes? It would just be all gum, wouldn't it? Just be all gum.
That's right.
But I guess you could take some organic, I don't know, einkorn and then sprout the weed and make your own or something like that would be okay, I guess, huh?
Right.
What does Dr. Peat think of tocotrino vitamin E versus mixed tocopherols role in the PUFA toxicity? So, we have tocotrino vitamin E versus mixed tocopherols.
I would go with the tocopherol mixture. In feeding experiments, the tocotrinols cause liver enlargement if they gain very much of it and that indicates some kind of a stress effect from the trienes.
Here's a good one. Is dry vitamin E legitimate? Dirk Pearson and Sandy Shaw recommended back in 1982. I remember that book. Remember that Pearson and Shaw book? Dry vitamin E, any such thing?
It does have some vitamin E value, but there is no dry vitamin E.
No such thing.
Yeah, it's just, yeah, succinane is sometimes sold that way as having special anti-tensor effectors.
I see.
Remember, Dirk at one point was recommending rubbing estrogen into his scalp to make his hair grow.
Yeah, did it work?
No.
That didn't work. That didn't work.
Got any ideas? Writes an email for thinning hair. It seems to start after I had a plate and screws put in my wrist after it broke. Oh. So, I guess this person had a little plate put in their wrist. Could that affect hair thinning?
Could it affect what?
Hair thinning? Thinning of hair?
Oh, conceivably, but the biological vitality of the scalp and the hair follicle corresponds, for example, low thyroid people tend to lose their hair.
And just increasing your metabolic rate will increase your ability to grow and retain the hair.
And so, if something is causing constant stress, that could slow your metabolism and contribute to hair loss.
Interesting. After all these years, have you ever seen any quality information on why the hairs tend to lose their color, gray? Why that is?
Many years ago, when I taught in Bozeman, Colorado, or Montana, the rate of white-haired, prematurely gray-haired people seemed very high in those very cold towns.
And I decided that the stress to the skin was probably a factor.
Radiation, when a person has dental x-rays, the whiskers will sometimes turn white in circular areas on the cheeks, a series of overlapping circles,
suggesting that the radiation was knocking out the ability to oxidize the pigment.
Copper is both the respiratory catalyst and the pigment-forming catalyst.
So, if you're copper deficient, you're going to tend to have white grain hair as well as lower metabolizing, maybe more inflamed tissue.
What do you think about drinking water out of a pure copper vessel from time to time? Do you think that's valuable?
Yeah, getting enough copper in relation to iron, I think, is a protective factor.
So, people who eat too much meat or other iron-rich food are going to compete and displace the copper that is needed for energy production and pigment formation.
And so, meat, like muscle meat or rib eye and T-bones that is fun to eat, that has a lot of iron.
Yeah, as well as, for most people, too much phosphate and too much tryptophan and other excitatory amino acids.
And too much heme, everything that it provides too much of tends to support tensor development and degenerative processes.
Wow. But I thought tryptophan is a sleepy time, you say, but it's excitatory or inflammatory in the meat, tryptophan?
Yeah, the three amino acids that correlate with aging, degeneration and inflammation, loss of thyroid function are methionine, cysteine and tryptophan.
Wow. So, chicken, beef, pork, any difference there?
Yeah, a little bit. The red muscle beats have quite a bit more iron.
So, chicken a little bit easier on the body?
For the iron content.
For the iron content, anyway. And then how about fish in general? I think I remember, I've been kind of eating, you said some of the best choices are scallops? You like scallops? Good choice?
Probably number one.
Number one?
Scallops, crab, calamari, all of the crustaceans and mollusks are pretty good.
Shrimp?
Yeah, shrimp, high copper in relation to iron.
I see. I see that copper, that kind of turquoise color in the lobster and things, that's what you're getting more copper there rather than iron. Interesting.
Do people generally who eat a lot more fish wherever they live have better mortality rates than the heavy meat eaters in general?
Yeah, I think part of it is the less iron content and the low fat fish I think are the best.
Low fat fish, so other than, let's see, salmon would be a high fat fish with a lot of threes, right, which you're not fans of, omega-3s, correct?
Yeah, and the shrimp and scallops are relatively low fat.
Cool. One more and then we'll let you go.
I consume too much salt in a day sometimes. The next morning my hands and joints will be stiff with some pain or flexing. Any ideas on how to relieve, purge some of that salt?
Wow. Why would salt do that to this person's joints, Dr. Peat?
Salt?
Salt. Too much salt, they tend to get little creaky joints and pain in their hands when they eat too much salt.
I don't know. I don't think I've ever heard that.
Yeah, I've never heard of that one. But now again, so just to know, to repeat, your favorite, if I understand, is the Morton's Pickling and Canning salt, right, with no iodine?
Right. It's very pure.
Very pure stuff. Well, we covered a lot of territory here this morning. Thanks for all that information on the whole starch and grains thing because we've been getting a lot of emails since we had this fellow on.
So I think he was kind of on the right track, really. I mean, he was talking about generally, in general, you didn't hear the show probably, but just commercial grains and could be a problem for a lot of people, right, just eating them.
Yes, if they aren't prepared properly.
If they aren't prepared properly. Dr. Peat, thank you. How's your newsletter's coming? Do we have a new one soon?
Oh, I'm going to write something about cancer. I return to the subject about every five years or so.
Oh, you do?
Some of the things I've been working on for 20 or 30 years are just now starting to really take off as subjects of interest.
Oh, that's great. That's great. Well, we look forward to that, sir. And you can get Ray Peat's newsletter by just emailing Ray Peat's newsletter. Ray Peat, let's see, is it plural pleats and newsletter, right? Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com. Is that right?
Ray Peat.
Yeah, and it's going to be four times a year rather than six times a year. And the subscription per year will be something around $10.
Oh, my God.
$10. Because PayPal charges almost 8% fee on $10. We're going to make $10. $10.20.
Well, God love you. So you can get that, folks. That'll be four times a year. Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com. Dr. Peat, as usual, it's just such an honor to have you. We would love talking to you. Did you enjoy the little headset thing? You think we should stay with it or get back to the phone next time?
I understood almost everything you said.
Yeah, well, you sound great. I mean, you sound much closer than on the phone. If you don't mind, we could try it again as long as you can hear me. Well, thanks a lot, sir. You take care of yourself. We appreciate it, okay?
Okay, thank you.
Thank you, sir. Ray Peat. Ray Peat's newsletter at gmail.com. And so that was great. Yeah, we were able to put this little thing together because, well, we don't have the telephone thing going. Just can't do it.
Well, okay. Well, that was great, huh? Yeah, it was good to get some really clarity on the whole grain thing.
Because I've been thinking about that, you know, since Dr. Davis came on the show. Yeah, people are emailing me, what's the name of that website where you get the nixtamalized corn?
I'll have to look that up. I don't have it handy. But there is a website. I bought a bunch of it, a big thing of it.
So there, if you want to grain, it's already been nixtamalized. But then you can also do it yourself.
We'll have to look into that.
Calcium hydroxide.
So we're going to talk to Bridge and see if she'll sprout her einkorn, even take it to another level before she makes bread.
But he did say that the einkorn and these ancient wheats are very, very easier in general for the whole digestion process, which is pretty fun.
OK, kids, we will see you tomorrow. We're going to talk about the Freemasons and these guys and where we got, how they get into our life, how they all started.
And then also Paul John Lando, Dr. Lando will be here tomorrow.
So we're going to have a good time, have a lot to talk about. And thanks for your ongoing support.
Let us know if we can help with anything. Adam will be here on Wednesday and we'll talk more about the whole starch thing.
And he knows a lot of stuff about it as well. So we're learning more and more how we can eat what we like and still not kill ourselves.
It's great. So I love you all very much. Thanks for your ongoing support.
We will see you tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Patrick Timpone and may the blessings be.
From the Hill Country in Texas, this is one radio network dot com.
(upbeat music)
Thanks for watching.